Before we can talk about how we can get our source code
into an image or a container in Docker,
we first need to understand how Docker images and containers work and
discuss something called the layered file system.
Now I've mentioned this term a few times earlier in the course,
but we really haven't gone into any good details on what it is and
the role of plays with our images and containers,
so let's talk about that now.
Now, from a high level, a dessert perspective in this case,
we have a bunch of layers here you can see.
And at the very bottom we have the base layer,
and then we add layers on top of that and build up and up and up
until we get the final dessert in this case.
Now you may immediately say,
what does that have to do with Docker images and containers?
And actually, the concepts have a lot to do with images and containers,
Docker images and containers are actually built of this layered file system,
and so you can think of instead of the dessert layers,
layers of files that build upon each other.
And you're going to see that's good for a lot of reasons.
It's good for disk space, it's good for reuse, and even other things.
So let's take a look at an image and see how these layers play into that image.
So here's an example of Ubuntu,
and let's say that we grab this off of Docker Hub.
And so we've got all these different layers,
and this is our layered file system in the image.
Now the file system and the layers that compose it within a given image,
they're all read only.
And so once that image is baked,
you're not going to be writing anything to that image from a
container, for instance. The image has the files, they're
kind of hard‑coded in the image,
and they're ready to go and be used, but you can't actually write to this.
Now that may seem a little bit limiting at first glance because we might
have images with a database that needs to write files.
Maybe we have to log some files.
Maybe we have some source code we want to swap and
change as a container is running.
So fortunately,
while images and the file system they have is read only, a container builds
on top of this and gets its own thin read/write layer.
And really,
that's the main distinguishing factor between a container and an image.
An image is a set of read only layers,
whereas a container has a thin read/write layer. Now, as you write
to that layer, if that container gets deleted,
then the writable layer also gets deleted. But coming up,
I'm going to show you how we can change that and use something called volumes.
But for now,
just understand that it is possible to write to a container
and do log files or database files or even have source code
that does something like that.
And we need to put it, though,
either in the image as a baked in layer or up in this thin
read/write layer of a container. And we're going to focus first in
this module on the container layer and what we can do there and how
we can use it. Now, as mentioned,
these file layers that we're using within our images are really,
really efficient when it comes to disk space and reusing things like that.
So, as an example,
if I were to use this Ubuntu image and make a bunch of
containers, then all these image layers that you see here, and
they all have unique identifiers per layer, you'll notice they
have some universal, unique identifier,
and these are all going to be shared across all the different containers.
So that's really,
really good for disk space because we don't have to make
a copy of that entire file system.
And that's why it's pretty quick to actually pull down different images,
especially once you already have some images installed.
Because if you take this one on the very bottom of Ubuntu that starts with
d3, if that particular file layer is used in other images,
then it'll just detect that, hey,
I already have that, and it won't have to redownload it.
It'll just share it between those images.
Now, in the case of each container that's created here,
you can see they all have their own unique read/write
layer. And so that's going to be okay.
Each one can uniquely log or store database files. But as mentioned,
if you delete the container,
you also get rid of that thin read/write layer, and that's where some
things called volumes are going to come into play.
Now that we've talked about this layered file system,
this can help us answer the question we addressed earlier in the module
of how do you get your source code into a container?
Well, at a minimum,
you could put it in the image, and we'll talk about that in a later module,
and I'll show you how to do that.
But as mentioned for this particular module,
we're going to focus on the container level,
that thin readable/writable type of layer, and we're going to integrate the
source code into that container using that particular layer.
So let's go ahead and take a look at more information on how we can do that with containers in something called volumes.